docs: derek's first refactor of the quickstart (#325)
kurtosis-tech/kurtosis: docs/docs/quickstart.md

Introduction
------------

> Welcome to the [Kurtosis][homepage] quickstart! This guide will take ~15 minutes and will walk you through configuring and building a basic Kurtosis package that can be used as an environment for running multi-container tests.

Reviewer: I would leave this section as-is, just to keep brevity

Author: ```suggestion
Welcome to the [Kurtosis][homepage] quickstart! This guide will take ~15 minutes and will walk you through building a basic Kurtosis package.
```

## Setup

> Before you proceed, please make sure you have:

Reviewer: this is great

Congratulations - you've written your first Kurtosis code!

### Review: Hello, World
:::info
We'll use these "Review" sections to explain what happened in the section. If you just want the action, feel free to skip them.
:::

In this section, we created a `main.star` file that prints `Hello, world`. The `.star` extension corresponds to [the Starlark language developed at Google][starlark-github-repo], a dialect of Python for configuring the [Bazel build system][bazel-github]. [Kurtosis uses Starlark for the same purpose of configuring builds][starlark-explanation], except that we're building a distributed application rather than binaries or JARs.

> When you ran `main.star`, you got `Created enclave: quickstart`. An [enclave][enclaves-explanation] is a Kurtosis primitive that can be thought of as an *ephemeral test environment*, on top of Docker or Kubernetes, for a distributed application. The distributed applications that you define with Starlark will run inside enclaves. If you'd like, you can tear down your enclave and any of their artifacts by running: `kurtosis clean -a` (more on the `kurtosis clean` command [here][kurtosis-clean-reference]).

Reviewer 2: Nice

Enclaves are intended to be easy to create, easy to destroy, cheap to run, and isolated from each other. Use enclaves liberally!

> **In this section, you've experienced just how quickly and effortlessly Kurtosis can be used to generate and tear down ephemeral test environments on top of Docker or Kubernetes.**

Reviewer 2: Did we see that though? Feels too early to say that.

Author: A few reasons why I think this is valid and should stay:
1. The user _did_ in fact see this: they wrote some Starlark and ran that code inside an isolated container and we showed the user how to (optionally) tear down their enclave using `kurtosis clean`. It's not a huge "wow" moment or something revolutionary, but we used this section to introduce the user to how quickly + easily it was to get an ephemeral environment up and running
2. For consistency's sake, every other section had a 1-2 sentence conclusion recapping a Kurtosis ability.

Reviewer 2: MY PROBLEM: it feels like it's reaching too far to say anything about environments given that they've ONLY printed "Hello, world". They haven't truly spun up an environment, nor tore it down, nor actually done anything iwth containers at all.

Author: Got it. You've convinced me. 

```suggestion
```

    )
```

Before you run the above command, remmeber that we still have the `quickstart` enclave hanging around from the previous section. To [clean up the previous enclave][kurtosis-clean-reference] for use with our new `main.star` file above, run:

```bash
kurtosis clean -a && kurtosis run --enclave quickstart main.star
```

:::info

> This "clean-and-run" process will be your dev loop for the rest of the quickstart as we add more services and operations to our distributed application.

Reviewer 2: nice; this is better

1. **Interpretation:** Kurtosis first ran your Starlark to build [a plan](https://docs.kurtosis.com/reference/plan) for what you wanted done (in this case, starting a Postgres instance)
1. **Validation:** Kurtosis then ran several validations against your plan, including validating that the Postgres image exists
1. **Execution:** Kurtosis finally executed the validated plan inside the enclave to start a Postgres container

Note that Kurtosis did not execute anything until _after_ Interpretation and Validation completed. You can think of Interpretation and Validation like Kurtosis' "compilation" step for your distributed application: we can catch many errors before any containers run, which shortens the dev loop and reduces the resource burden on your machine.

We call this approach [multi-phase runs][multi-phase-runs-reference]. While multi-phase runs has powerful benefits over traditional scripting, it also means _you cannot reference Execution values like IP address in Starlark_ because they simply don't exist at Interpretation time. We'll explore how Kurtosis gracefully handles values generated during the Execution phase at the Interpretation phase later on in the quickstart.

> **This section introduced Kurtosis' ability to validate environment definitions work as intended, _before_ they're run, helping developers catch errors sooner and save resources when configuring multi-container test environments.**

Author: ```suggestion
**This section introduced Kurtosis' ability to validate that definitions work as intended, _before_ they are run - helping developers catch errors sooner & save resources when configuring multi-container test environments.**
```

1. Making a sequence of PSQL commands via the `psql` binary
1. Using `pg_restore` to load a package of data

Both are possible in Kurtosis, but for this tutorial we'll use `pg_restore` to seed our database with a TAR of DVD rental information, [courtesy of postgresqltutorial.com](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-getting-started/postgresql-sample-database/). 

> ##### Without Kurtosis

Reviewer 2: Does this level of header actually work?

Author: yeah, its really small though. I think its the same font size as **bolded** font, but with extra padding below and above. See below: 
<img width="605" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/103802618/228271669-b29f2a5b-93c0-4b17-8792-ae1368922349.png">

Reviewer 2: Would prefer bolded text then, because headers go into GH's autogenerated table of contents

> Normally going this route seeding requires downloading the seed data to your local machine, starting Postgres, and writing a pile of Bash to copy the seed data to the Postgres server, and then finally running a `pg_restore` command. If you forgot to check if the database is available, you may get flakes when you try to use the seeding logic in a test. 

Author: ```suggestion
Normally going this route (using `pg_restore`) requires downloading the seed data to your local machine, starting Postgres, writing a pile of Bash to copy the seed data to the Postgres server, and then finally running the `pg_restore` command. If you forgot to check if the database is available, you may get flakes when you try to use the seeding logic in a test. 
```

> Alternatively, you could use Docker Compose to volume-mount the data TAR into the Postgres server, but you'd still need to handle Postgres availability and sequencing the `pg_restore` afterwards.

Reviewer 2: cool

Feel free to explore the Postgres container. When you're done run either `exit` or press Ctrl-D.

### Review: Add some data
So what just happened?

#### We created a Kurtosis package

By creating a [`kurtosis.yml`][kurtosis-yml-reference] file in our working directory, we turned our working directory into a [Kurtosis package][packages-reference] (specifically, a [runnable package][runnable-packages-reference]). After we did this, our newly created Kurtosis package could now declare dependencies on external packages using [Kurtosis’ built-in packaging/dependency system][how-do-imports-work-explanation].

To see this in action, the first line in our local `main.star` file was used to import, and therefore declare a dependency on, an external package called `data-package` using a [locator][locators-reference]:

```python
data_package_module = import_module("github.com/kurtosis-tech/awesome-kurtosis/data-package/main.star")
```
... which we then ran locally:
```python
data_package_module_result = data_package_module.run(plan, struct())
```

> This external Kurtosis package, named ["data-package"][data-package-example] contains the seed data for our postgres instance that we [referenced ealier](#add-some-data) as a `.tar` file.

Author: ```suggestion
This external Kurtosis package, named ["data-package"][data-package-example] contains the seed data for our Postgres instance that we [referenced earlier](#add-some-data) as a `.tar` file.
```

Feel free to explore the Postgres container. When you're done run either `exit` or press Ctrl-D.

### Review: Add some data
So what just happened?

> #### We created a Kurtosis package

Reviewer 2: this is better (same note to check header levels though)

Author: <img width="566" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/103802618/228323747-79303cd0-a6d2-4030-bd11-877d51970273.png">

Here's a screenshot of the rendered text on my preview branch: what do you think?

```python
data_package_module = import_module("github.com/kurtosis-tech/awesome-kurtosis/data-package/main.star")
```
... which we then ran locally:
```python
data_package_module_result = data_package_module.run(plan, struct())
```

This external Kurtosis package, named ["data-package"][data-package-example] contains the seed data for our postgres instance that we [referenced ealier](#add-some-data) as a `.tar` file.

#### We imported seed data into our Kurtosis package
The [`main.star` file][data-package-example-main.star] in that external "data-package" contained Starlark instructions to store the `.tar` data as a [files artifact][files-artifacts-reference] using the [`files_upload` Starlark instruction][kurtosis-files-upload-reference]:

```python
TAR_FILENAME = "dvd-rental-data.tar"
def run(plan, args):
    dvd_rental_data = plan.upload_files("github.com/kurtosis-tech/awesome-kurtosis/data-package/" + TAR_FILENAME)

    result =  struct(
        files_artifact = dvd_rental_data, # Needed to mount the data on a service
        tar_filename = TAR_FILENAME,      # Useful to reference the data TAR contained in the files artifact
    )

    return result
```

> A [files artifact][files-artifacts-reference] is Kurtosis' first-class data primitive and is a TGZ of arbitrary files living inside an enclave. So long as a files artifact exists, Kurtosis knows how to mount its contents on a service.  

Reviewer 2: oooo nice, "Kurtosis' data primitive". I like this.

> #### We mounting and seeded the data into our postgres instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### We mounted and seeded the data into our Postgres instance
```

> Next, we mounted the seed data, stored in our enclave now as a files artifact, into our postgres instance using the `ServiceConfig.files` option:

Author: ```suggestion
Next, we mounted the seed data, stored in our enclave now as a files artifact, into our Postgres instance using the `ServiceConfig.files` option:
```

> Next, we mounted the seed data, stored in our enclave now as a files artifact, into our postgres instance using the `ServiceConfig.files` option:

Reviewer 2: s/postgres/Postgres/ (proper nouns for consistencyplease!)

> Next, we mounted the seed data, stored in our enclave now as a files artifact, into our postgres instance using the `ServiceConfig.files` option:

Author: ```suggestion
Next, we mounted the seed data, stored in our enclave now as a files artifact, into our Postgres instance using the `ServiceConfig.files` option:
```

    # ...

    postgres_url = "postgresql://{}:{}@{}:{}/{}".format(
        "postgres",   # <---------- THE PROBLEM IS HERE
        POSTGRES_PASSWORD,
        postgres.ip_address,
        postgres.ports[POSTGRES_PORT_ID].number,
        POSTGRES_DB,
    )
```

> In the line declaring the `postgres_url` variable in your `main.star` file (line 58), replace the `"postgres",` string with `POSTGRES_USER,` to use the correct username we specified at the beginning of our file. Then re-run your dev loop:

Reviewer 2: I'd caution against line numbers, because they're likely not going to get updated in the future.

Author: ```suggestion
In the line declaring the `postgres_url` variable in your `main.star` file, replace the `"postgres",` string with `POSTGRES_USER,` to use the correct username we specified at the beginning of our file. Then re-run your dev loop:
```

98094b33cd9a   api         http: 3000/tcp -> http://127.0.0.1:59887             RUNNING
```

### Review: Add an API

> In this section, we spun up new PostgREST service (that we named `api` for readability) with a dependency on the Postgres service. Normally, PostgREST needs to know the IP address or hostname of the Postgres service, and we said earlier that Starlark (the Interpretation phase) can never know Execution values. 

Reviewer 2: s/spun up new/spun up a new/

Author: ```suggestion
In this section, we spun up a new PostgREST service (that we named `api` for readability) with a dependency on the Postgres service. Normally, PostgREST needs to know the IP address or hostname of the Postgres service, and we said earlier that Starlark (the Interpretation phase) can never know Execution values. 
```

> So how did the services get connected?

Reviewer 2: Looks like the question mark is getting deleted

...Kurtosis simply swapped in the correct Postgres container Execution-time values. While future references take some getting used to, [we've found the feedback loop speedup to be very worth it][why-multi-phase-runs-explanation].

> **What you've just seen is Kurtosis' powerful ability grab to use dynamically generated data to setup service dependencies in multi-container test environments. We also saw how seamless it was to to run on-box CLI commands on a container.**

Reviewer 2: typo: "grab to use"

"setup" is a noun, but "set up" is a verb

Author: ```suggestion
**What you've just seen is Kurtosis' powerful ability to data generated at runtime to set up service dependencies in multi-container test environments. We also saw how seamless it was to to run on-box CLI commands on a container.**
```

def run(plan, args):
```

> **This section showed us how we can interact with the test environment we setup and also how to paramterize our distributed application for others future re-use.**

Reviewer 2: same: "setup" should be "set up"

"others future re-use"

Author: ```suggestion
**This section showed us how we can interact with the test environment we set up and also how to parametrize our distributed application for others to re-use.**
```

Let's review. In this tutorial you have:

- Started a Postgres database in an ephemeral, isolated test environment
- Seeded your database by importing an external Starlark package from the internet

> - Setup an API server for our database and gracefully handled dynamically generated dependency data

Reviewer 2: "Setup" -> "set up"

Author: ```suggestion
- Set up an API server for our database and gracefully handled dynamically generated dependency data
```
